README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jembi/openhim-mediator-engine-java.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/jembi/openhim-mediator-engine-java) [![OpenHIM Core](https://img.shields.io/badge/openhim--core-1.2%2B-brightgreen.svg)](http://openhim.readthedocs.org/en/latest/user-guide/versioning.html)

OpenHIM Mediator Engine
=======================

An engine for building [OpenHIM](http://openhim.org) mediators based on the [Akka](http://akka.io/) framework.

# Yeoman Generator
The quickest way to get a new mediator up and running is to use the handy [Yeoman generator](https://github.com/jembi/openhim-mediator-yeoman-generators/tree/master/generator-mediator-java):
* `npm install -g yo`
* `npm install -g generator-mediator-java`
* `mkdir my-mediator`
* `cd my-mediator`
* `yo mediator-java`

See the **Getting Started** guide below otherwise.

# Getting Started
Include the jar in your mediator project. If you're using Maven, simply add the following dependency:
```
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.openhim</groupId>
  <artifactId>mediator-engine</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

The engine provides an HTTP server and Akka handlers for dealing with incoming requests. To fire up the engine, the `org.openhim.mediator.engine.MediatorServer` class is used. You simply have to pass it the necessary config and run the `start()` method:
```
MediatorConfig config = new MediatorConfig("my-mediator", "0.0.0.0", 8500);
//add config values...

MediatorServer server = new MediatorServer(config);
server.start()
```
Note that `start()` is non-blocking.

The server constructor also accepts an `ActorSystem` parameter (e.g. `new MediatorServer(myActorSytem, config)`), in the event that you want to manage this yourself. If _not_ passed, the server will create a new system. Note though that ActorSystem is a heavy object and there should ideally only be a single instance of this in your application.

On startup server will register your mediator with the HIM core and you must pass the registration json info to the config (see [this page](http://openhim.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dev-guide/mediators.html) and the **Configuration** section below for details).

You will need at least one actor in your project to receive requests from the engine. If you're starting a new mediator, you can simply create an actor as follows:
```
import akka.actor.UntypedActor;
import akka.event.Logging;
import akka.event.LoggingAdapter;
import org.apache.http.HttpStatus;
import org.openhim.mediator.engine.messages.FinishRequest;
import org.openhim.mediator.engine.messages.MediatorHTTPRequest;

public class MyActor extends UntypedActor {
    LoggingAdapter log = Logging.getLogger(getContext().system(), this);

    @Override
    public void onReceive(Object msg) throws Exception {
        if (msg instanceof MediatorHTTPRequest) {
            FinishRequest response = new FinishRequest("A message from my new mediator!", "text/plain", HttpStatus.SC_OK);
            ((MediatorHTTPRequest) msg).getRequestHandler().tell(response, getSelf());
        } else {
            unhandled(msg);
        }
    }
}
```

An actor is simply a Java Object that can receive messages. The engine will send your actor a `MediatorHTTPRequest` message whenever a request is received and you can respond by sending back a `FinishRequest` message. The `MediatorHTTPRequest` provides a reference to the request handler for receiving this response. The above actor template demonstrates a simple actor that responds immediately with an OK message. Note that the response can be sent asyncronously, not necessarily at the same moment you receive the http request like above.

When running, the server will receive requests as well as handle the response, including the formatting of the standard **application/json+openhim** response, so you do not need to worry about this. Whatever you return in the `FinishRequest` will be embedded in the response object.

To link your actor to the engine you have to create a routing table and pass that to the server config. The routing table consists of path/actor pairs, e.g.:
```
RoutingTable routingTable = new RoutingTable();
routingTable.addRoute("/mymediator", MyActor.class);
```

When receiving a request on the specified path, the engine will launch a new instance of your actor to handle the request (actor-per-request model). This means that you can safely add request-specific state to your actor.

In summary, the following illustrates an example main method that fires up the engine that'll route to the above `MyActor`:
```
import akka.actor.ActorSystem;
import akka.event.Logging;
import akka.event.LoggingAdapter;
import org.openhim.mediator.engine.*;
import java.io.InputStream;

public class MyMediatorMain {

    public static void main(String... args) throws Exception {
        //setup actor system
        final ActorSystem system = ActorSystem.create("mediator");
        //setup logger for main
        final LoggingAdapter log = Logging.getLogger(system, "main");

        //setup actors
        log.info("Initializing mediator actors...");

        MediatorConfig config = new MediatorConfig("my-mediator", "0.0.0.0", 8500);

        config.setCoreHost("localhost");
        config.setCoreAPIUsername("root@openhim.org");
        config.setCoreAPIPassword("openhim-password");

        RoutingTable routingTable = new RoutingTable();
        routingTable.addRoute("/mymediator", MyActor.class);
        config.setRoutingTable(routingTable);

        InputStream regInfo = MyMediatorMain.class.getClassLoader().getResourceAsStream("mediator-registration-info.json");
        RegistrationConfig regConfig = new RegistrationConfig(regInfo);
        config.setRegistrationConfig(regConfig);

        final MediatorServer server = new MediatorServer(system, config);

        //setup shutdown hook (will handle ctrl-c)
        Runtime.getRuntime().addShutdownHook(new Thread() {
            @Override
            public void run() {
                log.info("Shutting down mediator");
                server.stop();
                system.shutdown();
            }
        });

        log.info("Starting mediator server...");
        server.start();

        log.info("Mediator listening on 0.0.0.0:8500");
        Thread.currentThread().join();
    }
}
```

# Request Handler Reference
When receiving a request, the engine will send your actor a `MediatorHTTPRequest` message. This message contains a reference to the request handler actor, and it is this actor that you send messages to in order to manage the final mediator response. The messages it supports are as follows:
* **FinishRequest** - Finalize the request and send the response. Note that the request actor instances will be stopped at this point (the engine will send a `PoisonPill` message).
* **ExceptError** - An exception has occurred and the request should end with a `500 Internal Server Error` response.
* **AddOrchestrationToCoreResponse** - Add orchestration details to the request response. This message can be sent as many times as required.
* **PutPropertyInCoreResponse** - Put a name/value pair property in the request response. This message can be sent as many times as required.
* **AcceptedAsyncRequest** - Indicates to the request handler that the request will be processed asyncronously. When this message is sent, the request handler will immediately respond to the client with a 202 (Accepted) status, and processing can continue. The request can still be finalized by sending a FinishRequest message. When this is done, the engine will send an update with the response details to the HIM core.

# Connectors
The mediator engine provides several connectors that you can use in order to connect to other services. These are running as actors on the root context, so can be looked up as an `ActorSelection`:
```
ActorSelection connector = getContext().actorSelection(config.userPathFor("http-connector"));
MediatorHTTPRequest httpRequest = new MediatorHTTPRequest(...);
connecter.tell(httpRequest, getSelf());
```
The connectors are loaded on the path: "/user/**{mediator-name}**/**{connector-name}**" during mediator initialization. All the connectors will automatically add an orchestration item to the final mediator response (except for the `udp-fire-forget-connector`).

## `http-connector`
Provides connection to HTTP services. Accepts `MediatorHTTPRequest` messages and will respond with `MediatorHTTPResponse`. Also accepts `SetupHTTPSCertificate` for SSL configuration; although note that this is not required to be sent in order to use https.

## `core-api-connector`
An adaptor to the http-connector that adds the authentication headers as required by the OpenHIM Core API. Accepts `MediatorHTTPRequest` messages and will respond with `MediatorHTTPResponse`. It will use the auth details provided in the mediator config supplied to the mediator server. It also supports the `RegisterMediatorWithCore` message, although this is automatically called by the engine.

## `mllp-connector`
Provides connection to TCP services using the MLLP protocol. Accepts `MediatorSocketRequest` messages and will respond with `MediatorSocketResponse`.

## `udp-fire-forget-connector`
Provides connection to UDP services for fire-and-forget messages. Accepts `MediatorSocketRequest` messages with no response.

# Error Handling
It's important for a mediator to have robust error handling. The engine provides mechanisms for handling exceptions, see the above **Request Handler Reference** section. When you encounter an exception, simply send a message to the reguest handler, and it'll log and respond to the client with a 500 status. If however you encounter a logic error, such as a validation error of a received message body, rather use the FinishRequest message to respond appropriately:
```
try {
  parse(stuff);
} catch (ParseException ex) {
  FinishRequest response = new FinishRequest("Invalid message received", "text/plain", HttpStatus.SC_BAD_REQUEST);
  msg.getRequestHandler().tell(response, getSelf());
} catch (VerySeriousProblem ex) {
  msg.getRequestHandler().tell(new ExceptError(ex), getSelf());
}
```

If an exception occurs that is not handled by an actor, then the request handler will automatically respond with a 500 status.

# Configuration
The mediator engine provides you with several configuration mechanisms, both for setting up the mediator within the engine and core in order to get it up and running, as well as options that you can use to setup your own custom settings:
* **Mediator config**: As seen in the **Getting Started** section, the `MediatorConfig` class is used to setup the mediator within the context of the engine.
* **Registration config**: On startup, the mediator must register itself with core.
* **Properties**: The engine provides a mechanism for loading custom settings from a standard [java properties file](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/properties.html). This is useful for settings that you require at mediator startup, such as the OpenHIM Core configuration
* **Dynamic config**: Also provided is a dynamic config map that can be used for runtime settings.

Each mechanism is discussed below.

## Mediator Config
An instance of `MediatorConfig` is used to setup your mediator within the context of the engine. For convenience, any actors that are setup in the routing table can get a handle to the mediator config if it has a constructor that takes `MediatorConfig` as a parameter. If available, the engine will pass through a reference when routing to the actor:
```
public class MyActor extends UntypedActor {
    LoggingAdapter log = Logging.getLogger(getContext().system(), this);

    private final MediatorConfig config;

    public MyActor(MediatorConfig config) {
        this.config = config;
    }

    @Override
    public void onReceive(Object msg) throws Exception {
        if (msg instanceof MediatorHTTPRequest) {
            ...
        } else {
            unhandled(msg);
        }
    }
}
```

## Registration config
Upon startup your mediator must register itself with core. The engine will handle this automatically, but you must supply the engine with a json string containing the configuration for your mediator. See [this](http://openhim.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dev-guide/mediators.html) page for details. This string can be passed to your instance of `MediatorConfig` using an instance of `RegistrationConfig`:
```
InputStream json = ... //or String
RegistrationConfig regConfig = new RegistrationConfig(json);
config.setRegistrationConfig(regConfig);
```

## Properties
You can load a standard properties file into `MediatorConfig` using the overloaded `setProperties` method. These are then availabe via `getProperties()` and `getProperty(String)` for looking up a key/value pair. If you are using dynamic configuration (described below) then these properties can be useful for any static configuration that you may have.

## Dynamic config
In addition to properties, `MediatorConfig` also provides a String -> Object map (on `getDynamicConfig()`) that can be used for runtime settings. When `MediatorConfig` is initialized, this map will be empty and you can then use it to load any settings.

***[Only supported with OpenHIM Core version 1.4 or greater]*** If supported by the version of core you are using, and if heartbeats are enabled, then the engine will also automatically update the dynamic config map with any updates that are made core-side. This option can be used in order to dynamically change the mediator's config using the OpenHIM Console. To make use of this feature, ensure that heartbeats are enabled on the mediator (see **Heartbeats** section) and that you supply the `configDefs` and (optional) default `config` fields in your [registration config json](https://github.com/jembi/openhim-core-js/blob/249d9882f681a3f944cb8cc5e1735d703365aa60/src/model/mediators.coffee#L24-L25). In addition, if you have specified `config` values in your registration config, then those will be loaded into the map on startup (and overwritten with any changes from core if there are any).

# Heartbeats
***[Only supported with OpenHIM Core version 1.4 or greater]***

Mediator heartbeats can be enabled with the `setHeartbeatsEnabled` option in `MediatorConfig`. If enabled, the engine will periodically send an "aliveness" request to core. If there are any config changes (e.g. a user changed a setting for the mediator in the console), the dynamic config (`MediatorConfig#getDynamicConfig()`) will be updated with the changes.

# Actor Model
The engine is based on Akka and is designed to be an easy way to bootstrap an actor system for your mediator. However you are under no obligation to follow the actor model in your project! In this case, simply bootstrap your project as explained in the **Getting Started** section with a single actor for receiving requests and link to your own non-actor classes from there.

However, once you've got the base mediator running, it's very easy to integrate more actors into your application. This provides you with benefits such fault tolerance, thread and lock management and asyncronous processing. See the [Akka documentation](http://akka.io/docs) for details on using actors. Here we will discuss the conventions followed by the mediator engine.

## Adding actors
To add new actors, create an actor class, such as the discussed in the **Getting Started** section. To instantiate the actor in the current context, use `actorOf`:
```
ActorRef actor = getContext().actorOf(Props.create(SomeActor.class));
actor.tell(aMsg, getSelf());
```
The actor will be instantiated as a child of the current actor. Note that any actors that form part of the request handler hierarchy will be stopped once the request finishes. For example `MyActor` in **Getting Started** and any child actors that it, and they in turn, instantiate would form part of the hierarchy. The stop happens with a [`PoisonPill`](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.8/java/untyped-actors.html#PoisonPill) message, so the actors will have a chance to finish processing any current messages first.

Another option, useful for any single instance actors, is to launch them on startup and then reference them using `actorSelection`:
```
//startup
MediatorConfig config = new MediatorConfig("my-mediator", "0.0.0.0", 8500);
StartupActorsConfig startupActors = new StartupActorsConfig();
startupActors.addActor("some-actor", SomeActor.class);
config.setStartupActors(startupActors);
MediatorServer server = new MediatorServer(config);
...

//later
ActorSelection actor = getContext().actorSelection("/user/my-mediator/some-actor");
actor.tell(aMsg, getSelf());
```

Although deciding on when to instantiate actors ultimately depends on your own implementation, we follow the convention of using per-request (`actorOf` used within the request context) for any actors that require any state that's specific to the request and single instance actors (startup actors and `actorSelection`) otherwise.

## Error Handling Strategies
By default, if an unhandled exception occurs in an actor then the request handler will automatically respond to the client with a 500 status. However this does not apply to single instance actors (startup actors); for these the [default Akka supervisor strategy](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.8/java/fault-tolerance.html#Default_Supervisor_Strategy) will be used.

You can also override the error handling strategies in any of your own actors (both per-request and single instance); see the [Akka documentation](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.8/java/fault-tolerance.html).

# License
This software is licensed under the Mozilla Public License Version 2.0.

Commit message:

Refactor core registration/heartbeats into separate actor with more robust handling of core communications and config updates.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jembi/openhim-mediator-engine-java.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/jembi/openhim-mediator-engine-java) [![OpenHIM Core](https://img.shields.io/badge/openhim--core-1.2%2B-brightgreen.svg)](http://openhim.readthedocs.org/en/latest/user-guide/versioning.html)

OpenHIM Mediator Engine
=======================

An engine for building [OpenHIM](http://openhim.org) mediators based on the [Akka](http://akka.io/) framework.

# Yeoman Generator
The quickest way to get a new mediator up and running is to use the handy [Yeoman generator](https://github.com/jembi/openhim-mediator-yeoman-generators/tree/master/generator-mediator-java):
* `npm install -g yo`
* `npm install -g generator-mediator-java`
* `mkdir my-mediator`
* `cd my-mediator`
* `yo mediator-java`

See the **Getting Started** guide below otherwise.

# Getting Started
Include the jar in your mediator project. If you're using Maven, simply add the following dependency:
```
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.openhim</groupId>
  <artifactId>mediator-engine</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

The engine provides an HTTP server and Akka handlers for dealing with incoming requests. To fire up the engine, the `org.openhim.mediator.engine.MediatorServer` class is used. You simply have to pass it the necessary config and run the `start()` method:
```
MediatorConfig config = new MediatorConfig("my-mediator", "0.0.0.0", 8500);
//add config values...

MediatorServer server = new MediatorServer(config);
server.start()
```
Note that `start()` is non-blocking.

The server constructor also accepts an `ActorSystem` parameter (e.g. `new MediatorServer(myActorSytem, config)`), in the event that you want to manage this yourself. If _not_ passed, the server will create a new system. Note though that ActorSystem is a heavy object and there should ideally only be a single instance of this in your application.

On startup server will register your mediator with the HIM core and you must pass the registration json info to the config (see [this page](http://openhim.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dev-guide/mediators.html) and the **Configuration** section below for details).

You will need at least one actor in your project to receive requests from the engine. If you're starting a new mediator, you can simply create an actor as follows:
```
import akka.actor.UntypedActor;
import akka.event.Logging;
import akka.event.LoggingAdapter;
import org.apache.http.HttpStatus;
import org.openhim.mediator.engine.messages.FinishRequest;
import org.openhim.mediator.engine.messages.MediatorHTTPRequest;

public class MyActor extends UntypedActor {
    LoggingAdapter log = Logging.getLogger(getContext().system(), this);

    @Override
    public void onReceive(Object msg) throws Exception {
        if (msg instanceof MediatorHTTPRequest) {
            FinishRequest response = new FinishRequest("A message from my new mediator!", "text/plain", HttpStatus.SC_OK);
            ((MediatorHTTPRequest) msg).getRequestHandler().tell(response, getSelf());
        } else {
            unhandled(msg);
        }
    }
}
```

An actor is simply a Java Object that can receive messages. The engine will send your actor a `MediatorHTTPRequest` message whenever a request is received and you can respond by sending back a `FinishRequest` message. The `MediatorHTTPRequest` provides a reference to the request handler for receiving this response. The above actor template demonstrates a simple actor that responds immediately with an OK message. Note that the response can be sent asyncronously, not necessarily at the same moment you receive the http request like above.

When running, the server will receive requests as well as handle the response, including the formatting of the standard **application/json+openhim** response, so you do not need to worry about this. Whatever you return in the `FinishRequest` will be embedded in the response object.

To link your actor to the engine you have to create a routing table and pass that to the server config. The routing table consists of path/actor pairs, e.g.:
```
RoutingTable routingTable = new RoutingTable();
routingTable.addRoute("/mymediator", MyActor.class);
```

When receiving a request on the specified path, the engine will launch a new instance of your actor to handle the request (actor-per-request model). This means that you can safely add request-specific state to your actor.

In summary, the following illustrates an example main method that fires up the engine that'll route to the above `MyActor`:
```
import akka.actor.ActorSystem;
import akka.event.Logging;
import akka.event.LoggingAdapter;
import org.openhim.mediator.engine.*;
import java.io.InputStream;

public class MyMediatorMain {

    public static void main(String... args) throws Exception {
        //setup actor system
        final ActorSystem system = ActorSystem.create("mediator");
        //setup logger for main
        final LoggingAdapter log = Logging.getLogger(system, "main");

        //setup actors
        log.info("Initializing mediator actors...");

        MediatorConfig config = new MediatorConfig("my-mediator", "0.0.0.0", 8500);

        config.setCoreHost("localhost");
        config.setCoreAPIUsername("root@openhim.org");
        config.setCoreAPIPassword("openhim-password");

        RoutingTable routingTable = new RoutingTable();
        routingTable.addRoute("/mymediator", MyActor.class);
        config.setRoutingTable(routingTable);

        InputStream regInfo = MyMediatorMain.class.getClassLoader().getResourceAsStream("mediator-registration-info.json");
        RegistrationConfig regConfig = new RegistrationConfig(regInfo);
        config.setRegistrationConfig(regConfig);

        final MediatorServer server = new MediatorServer(system, config);

        //setup shutdown hook (will handle ctrl-c)
        Runtime.getRuntime().addShutdownHook(new Thread() {
            @Override
            public void run() {
                log.info("Shutting down mediator");
                server.stop();
                system.shutdown();
            }
        });

        log.info("Starting mediator server...");
        server.start();

        log.info("Mediator listening on 0.0.0.0:8500");
        Thread.currentThread().join();
    }
}
```

# Request Handler Reference
When receiving a request, the engine will send your actor a `MediatorHTTPRequest` message. This message contains a reference to the request handler actor, and it is this actor that you send messages to in order to manage the final mediator response. The messages it supports are as follows:
* **FinishRequest** - Finalize the request and send the response. Note that the request actor instances will be stopped at this point (the engine will send a `PoisonPill` message).
* **ExceptError** - An exception has occurred and the request should end with a `500 Internal Server Error` response.
* **AddOrchestrationToCoreResponse** - Add orchestration details to the request response. This message can be sent as many times as required.
* **PutPropertyInCoreResponse** - Put a name/value pair property in the request response. This message can be sent as many times as required.
* **AcceptedAsyncRequest** - Indicates to the request handler that the request will be processed asyncronously. When this message is sent, the request handler will immediately respond to the client with a 202 (Accepted) status, and processing can continue. The request can still be finalized by sending a FinishRequest message. When this is done, the engine will send an update with the response details to the HIM core.

# Connectors
The mediator engine provides several connectors that you can use in order to connect to other services. These are running as actors on the root context, so can be looked up as an `ActorSelection`:
```
ActorSelection connector = getContext().actorSelection(config.userPathFor("http-connector"));
MediatorHTTPRequest httpRequest = new MediatorHTTPRequest(...);
connecter.tell(httpRequest, getSelf());
```
The connectors are loaded on the path: "/user/**{mediator-name}**/**{connector-name}**" during mediator initialization. All the connectors will automatically add an orchestration item to the final mediator response (except for the `udp-fire-forget-connector`).

## `http-connector`
Provides connection to HTTP services. Accepts `MediatorHTTPRequest` messages and will respond with `MediatorHTTPResponse`. Also accepts `SetupHTTPSCertificate` for SSL configuration; although note that this is not required to be sent in order to use https.

## `core-api-connector`
An adaptor to the http-connector that adds the authentication headers as required by the OpenHIM Core API. Accepts `MediatorHTTPRequest` messages and will respond with `MediatorHTTPResponse`. It will use the auth details provided in the mediator config supplied to the mediator server. It also supports the `RegisterMediatorWithCore` message, although this is automatically called by the engine.

## `mllp-connector`
Provides connection to TCP services using the MLLP protocol. Accepts `MediatorSocketRequest` messages and will respond with `MediatorSocketResponse`.

## `udp-fire-forget-connector`
Provides connection to UDP services for fire-and-forget messages. Accepts `MediatorSocketRequest` messages with no response.

# Error Handling
It's important for a mediator to have robust error handling. The engine provides mechanisms for handling exceptions, see the above **Request Handler Reference** section. When you encounter an exception, simply send a message to the reguest handler, and it'll log and respond to the client with a 500 status. If however you encounter a logic error, such as a validation error of a received message body, rather use the FinishRequest message to respond appropriately:
```
try {
  parse(stuff);
} catch (ParseException ex) {
  FinishRequest response = new FinishRequest("Invalid message received", "text/plain", HttpStatus.SC_BAD_REQUEST);
  msg.getRequestHandler().tell(response, getSelf());
} catch (VerySeriousProblem ex) {
  msg.getRequestHandler().tell(new ExceptError(ex), getSelf());
}
```

If an exception occurs that is not handled by an actor, then the request handler will automatically respond with a 500 status.

# Configuration
The mediator engine provides you with several configuration mechanisms, both for setting up the mediator within the engine and core in order to get it up and running, as well as options that you can use to setup your own custom settings:
* **Mediator config**: As seen in the **Getting Started** section, the `MediatorConfig` class is used to setup the mediator within the context of the engine.
* **Registration config**: On startup, the mediator must register itself with core.
* **Properties**: The engine provides a mechanism for loading custom settings from a standard [java properties file](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/properties.html). This is useful for settings that you require at mediator startup, such as the OpenHIM Core configuration
* **Dynamic config**: Also provided is a dynamic config map that can be used for runtime settings.

Each mechanism is discussed below.

## Mediator Config
An instance of `MediatorConfig` is used to setup your mediator within the context of the engine. For convenience, any actors that are setup in the routing table can get a handle to the mediator config if it has a constructor that takes `MediatorConfig` as a parameter. If available, the engine will pass through a reference when routing to the actor:
```
public class MyActor extends UntypedActor {
    LoggingAdapter log = Logging.getLogger(getContext().system(), this);

    private final MediatorConfig config;

    public MyActor(MediatorConfig config) {
        this.config = config;
    }

    @Override
    public void onReceive(Object msg) throws Exception {
        if (msg instanceof MediatorHTTPRequest) {
            ...
        } else {
            unhandled(msg);
        }
    }
}
```

## Registration config
Upon startup your mediator must register itself with core. The engine will handle this automatically, but you must supply the engine with a json string containing the configuration for your mediator. See [this](http://openhim.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dev-guide/mediators.html) page for details. This string can be passed to your instance of `MediatorConfig` using an instance of `RegistrationConfig`:
```
InputStream json = ... //or String
RegistrationConfig regConfig = new RegistrationConfig(json);
config.setRegistrationConfig(regConfig);
```

The mediator will reattempt the registration request if core is unavailable, e.g. if the mediator starts up before core. It will continue attempting the request until it successful.

## Properties
You can load a standard properties file into `MediatorConfig` using the overloaded `setProperties` method. These are then availabe via `getProperties()` and `getProperty(String)` for looking up a key/value pair. If you are using dynamic configuration (described below) then these properties can be useful for any static configuration that you may have.

## Dynamic config
In addition to properties, `MediatorConfig` also provides a String -> Object map (on `getDynamicConfig()`) that can be used for runtime settings. When `MediatorConfig` is initialized, this map will be empty and you can then use it to load any settings.

***[Only supported with OpenHIM Core version 1.4 or greater]*** If supported by the version of core you are using, and if heartbeats are enabled, then the engine will also automatically update the dynamic config map with any updates that are made core-side. This option can be used in order to dynamically change the mediator's config using the OpenHIM Console. To make use of this feature, ensure that heartbeats are enabled on the mediator (see **Heartbeats** section) and that you supply the `configDefs` and (optional) default `config` fields in your [registration config json](https://github.com/jembi/openhim-core-js/blob/249d9882f681a3f944cb8cc5e1735d703365aa60/src/model/mediators.coffee#L24-L25). In addition, if you have specified `config` values in your registration config, then those will be loaded into the map on startup (and overwritten with any changes from core if there are any).

# Heartbeats
***[Only supported with OpenHIM Core version 1.4 or greater]***

Mediator heartbeats can be enabled with the `setHeartbeatsEnabled` option in `MediatorConfig`. If enabled, the engine will periodically send an "aliveness" request to core. If there are any config changes (e.g. a user changed a setting for the mediator in the console), the dynamic config (`MediatorConfig#getDynamicConfig()`) will be updated with the changes.

# Actor Model
The engine is based on Akka and is designed to be an easy way to bootstrap an actor system for your mediator. However you are under no obligation to follow the actor model in your project! In this case, simply bootstrap your project as explained in the **Getting Started** section with a single actor for receiving requests and link to your own non-actor classes from there.

However, once you've got the base mediator running, it's very easy to integrate more actors into your application. This provides you with benefits such fault tolerance, thread and lock management and asyncronous processing. See the [Akka documentation](http://akka.io/docs) for details on using actors. Here we will discuss the conventions followed by the mediator engine.

## Adding actors
To add new actors, create an actor class, such as the discussed in the **Getting Started** section. To instantiate the actor in the current context, use `actorOf`:
```
ActorRef actor = getContext().actorOf(Props.create(SomeActor.class));
actor.tell(aMsg, getSelf());
```
The actor will be instantiated as a child of the current actor. Note that any actors that form part of the request handler hierarchy will be stopped once the request finishes. For example `MyActor` in **Getting Started** and any child actors that it, and they in turn, instantiate would form part of the hierarchy. The stop happens with a [`PoisonPill`](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.8/java/untyped-actors.html#PoisonPill) message, so the actors will have a chance to finish processing any current messages first.

Another option, useful for any single instance actors, is to launch them on startup and then reference them using `actorSelection`:
```
//startup
MediatorConfig config = new MediatorConfig("my-mediator", "0.0.0.0", 8500);
StartupActorsConfig startupActors = new StartupActorsConfig();
startupActors.addActor("some-actor", SomeActor.class);
config.setStartupActors(startupActors);
MediatorServer server = new MediatorServer(config);
...

//later
ActorSelection actor = getContext().actorSelection("/user/my-mediator/some-actor");
actor.tell(aMsg, getSelf());
```

Although deciding on when to instantiate actors ultimately depends on your own implementation, we follow the convention of using per-request (`actorOf` used within the request context) for any actors that require any state that's specific to the request and single instance actors (startup actors and `actorSelection`) otherwise.

## Error Handling Strategies
By default, if an unhandled exception occurs in an actor then the request handler will automatically respond to the client with a 500 status. However this does not apply to single instance actors (startup actors); for these the [default Akka supervisor strategy](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.8/java/fault-tolerance.html#Default_Supervisor_Strategy) will be used.

You can also override the error handling strategies in any of your own actors (both per-request and single instance); see the [Akka documentation](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.8/java/fault-tolerance.html).

# License
This software is licensed under the Mozilla Public License Version 2.0.
